import { Meta } from "@storybook/addon-docs";

<Meta title="Requirements/Accessibility" />

# üßè‚Äç‚ôÄÔ∏è Accessibility

We consider accessibility of our components as a basic requirement and an
obligation towards our users. Our components meet at least WCAG 2.1 Level A and
Level AA requirements, and are tested with screen readers and alternative input
options. Compliance is ensured by automated tests (e.g. storybook-addon-a11y)
and manual tests.

The accessibility of components is often not trivial to evaluate. In the
following sections, some requirements and guidelines are defined to facilitate
the assessment.

## The Storybook a11y addon

A good starting point in development is to review the Accessibility addon in the
Storybook Addon panel. It automatically checks many basic properties of the
components that are relevant for accessibility, such as color contrasts,
semantic markup, and sufficient labeling of elements. Internally, the addon uses
the [axe-core](https://github.com/dequelabs/axe-core), which claims to detect an
average of 57% of WCAG-relevant issues. You should make sure that the addon does
not display any violations.

## ARIA Authoring Practices Guide

The [ARIA Authoring Practices Guide](https://www.w3.org/WAI/ARIA/apg/) provides
a great reference for the accessibility of many UI components. You should check
the [Patterns](https://www.w3.org/WAI/ARIA/apg/patterns/) and
[Practices](https://www.w3.org/WAI/ARIA/apg/practices/) pages as a starting
point for new components. They define the necessary markup structures, ARIA
properties and keyboard interactions for many components.

## WCAG 2.1

tbd. https://www.w3.org/WAI/standards-guidelines/wcag/

## Testing with the MacOS screen reader

MacOS comes with a built-in screen reader that can be used to test our
components.
[Here is a nice introduction for frontend developers](https://get-evinced.com/blog/screen-readers-101-for-front-end-developers-mac/)
that explains how to use it, and how to test HTML landmarks, headings, forms and
links for accessiblity.

## Documentation

The documentation of our components includes an accessibility section that
should be populated with the applicable ARIA properties and the implemented
keyboard interactions. Furthermore, all used references can be linked here.
